# Intro Module

## Overview of PrimeNG

See Google Doc

## What's in the Box

See Google Doc

## Getting Setup

I'm presuming your using [angular-cli](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) - and that tool churns hard.

    npm install -g @angular/cli

At this moment in time, it works like this:

Setup your project:

    ng new agile-times
    
    npm install primeng --save
    npm install font-awesome --save

Edit your .angular-cli.json in your root dir to drag in the styles:
    
      "styles": [
          "../node_modules/font-awesome/css/font-awesome.css",
          "../node_modules/primeng/resources/primeng.css"
          "styles.css",
      ],    
      

## Migrating Between Prime Versions (upgrading to the current version from the course version)

A word on semantic versioning. Run NPM outdated to see what's changed. I'll keep the GitHub repo up to speed.

      npm outdated

## Themes

Themes are build in with [good docs](https://www.primefaces.org/primeng/#/theming) based around [jQueryUI Themeroller](https://jqueryui.com/themeroller/). You can also purchase commercial themes.

In this course we're using the free Bootstrap theme - but it won't look like the cliche Bootstrap site you're thinking of. 
 
Themes are configured just through CSS style application in your angular-cli.json. Here's what you need to know up front (I've added font-awesome to the mix)

      "styles": [
        "../node_modules/font-awesome/css/font-awesome.css",
        "../node_modules/primeng/resources/primeng.css",
        "../node_modules/primeng/resources/themes/bootstrap/theme.css",
        "styles.css"
      ],



## Your First Component: Panel

The three step process of:

1. Find and import the component module (sometimes more than one)
1. Add markup to your page to invoke the component
1. (Optionally) wire up to a component backing data properties or methods


      <p-panel header="Settings" class="ui-g">
      
        <div class="ui-g">
          <label for="notify" class="ui-g-12 ui-md-2">Email To Notify:</label>
          <input id="notify" class="ui-g-12 ui-md-10" placeholder="Enter an Email Address" type="email"/>
        </div>
      
        <div class="ui-g">
          <label for="backup" class="ui-g-12 ui-md-2">Force Backup:</label>
          <input id="backup" class="ui-g-12 ui-md-10" type="button" value="Backup System Now"/>
        </div>
      
      </p-panel>



## Styling Your First Component - into the /deep/ of CSS

You can use /deep/ to style inside a panel (or the >>> selector which has now replaced it)

    p-panel >>> .ui-panel {
      margin-top: 1em;
      width: 98%;
      min-height: 300px;
    }

## Making use of Grid Systems

Specify the grid using a combination of ui-g- ui-lg- ui-md- ui-sm-

Drag your browser or use F12 tools to change to mobile view.

     <p-panel header="Settings" class="ui-g">
          
            <div class="ui-g">
              <label for="notify" class="ui-g-12 ui-md-2">Email To Notify:</label>
              <input id="notify" class="ui-g-12 ui-md-10" placeholder="Enter an Email Address" type="email"/>
            </div>
          
            <div class="ui-g">
              <label for="backup" class="ui-g-12 ui-md-2">Force Backup:</label>
              <button id="backup" class="ui-g-12 ui-md-10">Backup System Now</button>
            </div>
          
          </p-panel>


## Making use of Font Awesome

Once you install font-awesome, you have access to a huge collection of CSS fonts. Using they is a matter of styling an element with the appropriate class:

      <i class="fa fa-cloud-download"></i>
      
which I could style for size and color with font-size: 50px or color: red or whatever.

Because I'm styling the I element, I need to add both fa and fa-cloud-download, but many Prime components support an icon element which you can specify the name of the icon `fa-cloud-download` directly. We'll see that shortly in the menu.


## Building a Stats Component

You can, of course, nest grids within grids:

        <div class="ui-g">
      
          <label for="statistic" class="ui-g-12 ui-md-2">Uptime Stats:</label>
          <div id="statistic" class="ui-g-12 ui-md-10 ui-g-nopad" >
      
            <div class="icon ui-g-5">
              <i class="fa fa-cloud-download"></i>
            </div>
      
            <div class="data ui-g-7">
              <div class="value">20</div>
              <div class="label">Days Uptime</div>
            </div>
          </div>
      
      
        </div>

Challenge: Make your own statistics component that makes the labels and icons configurable

## Data Backed Components - The Main Menu

Our p-panel isn't Data-backed, but some components are. The menu that you see in the application is a p-menu component:

If you were using this component in your app, you'd first add it to your imports. 

    MenuModule
    
Then you'd add the markup:    

      <p-menu [model]="menuItems"></p-menu>
      
But in this case, the menu is populated by a backing model:
 
    private menuItems: MenuItem[];
    
Remember, types aren't really a thing in JavaScript, they will be compiled away. But they are awesome for developer happiness.    
    
    this.menuItems = 
          {label: 'Dashboard', icon: 'fa-home', routerLink: ['/dashboard'] }
          {label: 'All Timesheets', icon: 'fa-calendar', routerLink: ['/alltimes'] },
          {label: 'My Timesheet', icon: 'fa-clock-o', routerLink: ['/mytimes'] },
          {label: 'My Projects', icon: 'fa-tasks', routerLink: ['/projects'] },
          {label: 'My Profile', icon: 'fa-users', routerLink: ['/profile'] },
          {label: 'Settings', icon: 'fa-sliders', routerLink: ['/settings'] }
    ]

That's an example of that icon property we mentioned earlier!


## Architecture Map of Agile Times - Source Code Layout

Show each menu of the sample app mapping to a component in the matching directory property.

Our components will be pre-created in the sample app, ready for you to add your own goodness.

Be cool to have a plunker to experiment with too. TODO make one!


